# Networking 
 A subnet or subnetwork is a network inside a network.Subnet make networl more efficient.Through subnetting,network traffic can travel a shorter distance without passing through unnecessary routers to reach its destination.
# PORT 
It is virtual places within the operating system where the network connection start and end .
It is software-based and managed by a computers os .
Each ports allow to differentiate the different type of the traffic and service.
 ## Port number 
Most of the  port  are reserved for the certain protocols.
 Ports 20 and 21: File Transfer Protocol (FTP).
 Port 22: Secure Shell (SSH). SSH is one of many tunneling protocols that create secure network connections.
 Port 25:SMTP is used for email.
 Port 53: Domain Name System (DNS).
 Port 80: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP).
 Port 123: Network Time Protocol (NTP).
 Port 179: Border Gateway Protocol (BGP).
 Port 3389: Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP). 
 Port 587: Modern, secure SMTP that uses encryption.
 
# URL 
 Uniform Resource locatoe (URL)
  # FQDN 
  Fully Qualified Domain Name 
# WAN 

 Wide area network is collection of lan .
 # Local Area Network 
 Internal Networks (Ex : Home or Office )
 # WLAN 
 Wireless local area network. Internal network accessible over wifi.
 # Virtual Private Network 
  Connects multiple network sites to one LAN .
# Network Topologies 
 It is typicall arrangement of physical or logical connection of a devices in a network .
  Computer are hosts suhc as server and client. It include switches,bridges ans routers .
   The network topology determines the components to be used and the access methods to the transmission.

# NOTE
 Point-to-point topologies are the basic model of traditional telephony and must not be confused with the P2P (Peer to peer architecture ).
 # Topologies 
 # Proxies 
  A proxies is when a device or service sits in the middle of a connection and acts as medator. Ans in the middle must be able to inspect the content of the traffic.
   Proxy always operate at the layer 7.
# Forward proxy 
 It filter outgoing request .
 A Forward Proxy is when a client makes a request to a computer, and that computer carries out the request.Web Browsers like Internet Explorer, Edge, or Chrome all obey the "System Proxy" settings by default. If the malware utilizes WinSock (Native Windows API), it will likely be proxy aware without any additional code. Firefox does not use WinSock and instead uses libcurl, which enables it to use the same code on any operating system. 
 # Reverse proxy 
 It filter the incoming request 
 The most common goal of this is to listen to an addres and forward it to a closed-off-network.
  IDS [Itrusion Detection System ] watching ecternal web request.If the attackers gains access to the organisations over SSH.
 For web we have ModSecurity, a Web Application Firewall (WAF).

 # Networking Models 
  Models describe the transfer of data from one host to another ISO/OSI and the TCP/ip.

 ## The OSI Model 
 It stands for the open system interconnection.
 It is a communication gateway between the network and end-user.
 It contains two main layer which are Host layer (Layer 4-7) and Media layer(Layer 1-3) .

 1. Layer Physical Network Card 
 2. Layer Data-linl Switches,Bridge
 3. Layer Network Router,L3 Switch 
 4. Layer Transport  TCP,UDP
 5. Layer  Session  NetBios 
 6. Layer Presentation  JPG,PNG,SSL,TLS 
 7. Layer Application  File HTTPS 
 # The TCP/IP Model 
 It allows hosts to connect to the Internet.
 1. Link
 2. Internet 
 3. Transport 
 4. Application
 
# Network layer 
 The network layer  layer of OSI control the xchange of data packets,as these cannot be directly routed to the reciever.
 These data packets are then transfered from node to node until they reach their target.
 Netork layer is responsiible for Local Addressing  and routing
 Important protocol for this layer are :_
  - IPv4/ IPv6
  - IPsec
  - IGMP
  - RIP
  - OSPF
 # IP
 # Web Request 
 TCP/IP implements higher-level Internet protocols at the application program level.
 HTTP is an application-level protocol used to acces the World web resources.
 s. The term hypertext stands for text containing links to other resources and text that the readers can easily interpret.
HTTP consist of client and server.where the client request the server for resource and server responds back the with the requested resources.
 The default server is port 80.which can be be changed to any other port depending upon the configuration of web server configuration .
 # URL 
cURL stand for the client side URL.
Resources over HTTP are  accesed via `URL`.










